Add Doc.from_json() (#10688)
explosion/spaCy: website/docs/api/doc.md

deprecated [`JSON training format`](/api/data-formats#json-input).

> #### Example
>
> ```python
> doc = nlp("All we have to decide is what to do with the time that is given us.")
> assert doc.to_json()["text"] == doc.text
> ```

| Name         | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| ------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `underscore` | Optional list of string names of custom `doc._.attributes`. Attribute values need to be JSON-serializable. Values will be added to an `"_"` key in the data, e.g. `"_": {"foo": "bar"}`. ~~Optional[List[str]]~~ |
| **RETURNS**  | The data in JSON format. ~~Dict[str, Any]~~                                                                                                                                                                      |

> ## Doc.from_json {#from_json tag="method"}

Reviewer: We could add a `new="3.3"` here, or `new="3.3.1"`, depending on when we'll eventually merge this PR and whether it'll make the cut for 3.3 or not :-)

Author: Went with "3.3.1" - included in the next commit.

| `underscore` | Optional list of string names of custom `doc._.attributes`. Attribute values need to be JSON-serializable. Values will be added to an `"_"` key in the data, e.g. `"_": {"foo": "bar"}`. ~~Optional[List[str]]~~ |
| **RETURNS**  | The data in JSON format. ~~Dict[str, Any]~~                                                                                                                                                                      |

## Doc.from_json {#from_json tag="method" new="3.3.1"}

Deserializes a document from JSON, i.e. generates a document from the provided
JSON data as generated by [`Doc.to_json()`](/api/doc#to_json).

> #### Example
>
> ```python
> from spacy.tokens import Doc
> doc = nlp("All we have to decide is what to do with the time that is given us.")
> doc_json = doc.to_json()
> deserialized_doc = Doc(nlp.vocab).from_json(doc_json)
> assert deserialized_doc.text == doc.text == doc_json["text"]
> ```

| Name        | Description                                                                |
| ----------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | `doc_json`  | The Doc data in JSON format. ~~Dict[str, Any]~~                            |

Reviewer 2: Also add `validate` here.

| **RETURNS**  | The data in JSON format. ~~Dict[str, Any]~~                                                                                                                                                                      |

## Doc.from_json {#from_json tag="method" new="3.3.1"}

Deserializes a document from JSON, i.e. generates a document from the provided
JSON data as generated by [`Doc.to_json()`](/api/doc#to_json).

> #### Example
>
> ```python
> from spacy.tokens import Doc
> doc = nlp("All we have to decide is what to do with the time that is given us.")
> doc_json = doc.to_json()
> deserialized_doc = Doc(nlp.vocab).from_json(doc_json)
> assert deserialized_doc.text == doc.text == doc_json["text"]
> ```

| Name        | Description                                                                                                              |
| ----------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |

> | `doc_json`  | The Doc data in JSON format. ~~Dict[str, Any]~~                                                                          |
> | `validate`  | Flag indicating whether the the schema of `doc_json` should be validated against `spacy.schemas.DocJSONSchema`. ~~bool~~ |
> | **RETURNS** | A doc instance corresponding to the specified JSON representation. ~~Doc~~                                               |

Reviewer 2: (plus reformatting)

```suggestion
| `doc_json`  | The Doc data in JSON format from [`Doc.to_json`](#to_json). ~~Dict[str, Any]~~                                                                          |
| _keyword-only_ | |
| `validate` | Whether to validate the JSON input against the expected schema for detailed debugging. Defaults to `False`. ~~bool~~ |
| **RETURNS** | A `Doc` corresponding to the provided JSON. ~~Doc~~                                               |
```

| `exclude`      | String names of [serialization fields](#serialization-fields) to exclude. ~~Iterable[str]~~ |
| **RETURNS**    | The `Doc` object. ~~Doc~~                                                                   |

## Doc.to_json {#to_json tag="method"}

Serializes a document to JSON. Note that this is format differs from the
deprecated [`JSON training format`](/api/data-formats#json-input).

> #### Example
>
> ```python
> doc = nlp("All we have to decide is what to do with the time that is given us.")
> assert doc.to_json()["text"] == doc.text
> ```

| Name         | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| ------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | `underscore` | Optional list of string names of custom `doc._.attributes`. Attribute values need to be JSON-serializable. Values will be added to an `"_"` key in the data, e.g. `"_": {"foo": "bar"}`. ~~Optional[List[str]]~~ |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `underscore` | Optional list of string names of custom `Doc` attributes. Attribute values need to be JSON-serializable. Values will be added to an `"_"` key in the data, e.g. `"_": {"foo": "bar"}`. ~~Optional[List[str]]~~ |
```
